The thing about being a founder CEO is
there's no one there to rescue you. Your
parents aren't going to rescue you. Your
VC is not going to rescue you. That kind
of hits you when you hit your first
crisis.
>> Starting a company has never been
easier. Scaling one into a durable, high
impact organization has never been
harder.
>> The number of companies formed is going
to mushroom over the next 10 years
relative to the last 10 years. It's just
going to be hard to stand out [music]
and really accelerate. What's most
different about what it was like to be a
CEO maybe 10, 20 years ago versus today.
There's a massive tax and optionality
when you can move this fast and try
[music] a lot of things. It puts
pressure on the CEOs to be faster and
[music] better decision makers. A lot of
people in the world want to be founders.
They want to be cos. I don't think
anyone [music] can do it. People talk
about 996. It's way more than that.
Founders are 7 days a week. They're
always on. I text Sunday nights. It's
full contact. Do you feel like there are
specific profiles or traits to be
successful? I look for four things.
[laughter]
I call it my lock algorithm.
Today my guest is Brian Hallagan,
co-founder and longtime CEO of HubSpot.
I asked Brian to come on this podcast
because he is more than anyone I've met
a student of the job of a CEO. After
leaving HubSpot last year, he became the
in-house CEO coach at Sequoia, where he
brings together dozens of top CEOs to
learn from each other. He does
one-on-one coaching with some of the
world's top CEOs. He also hosts a
popular podcast called Long Strange Trip
where he interviews some of the world's
most successful CEOs. In this
conversation, we unpack what it takes to
be a successful CEO in today's era.
Let's get into it after a short word
from our wonderful sponsors.
Applications break in all kinds of ways.
Crashes, slowdowns, regressions, and the
stuff that you only see once real users
[music] show up. Sentry catches it all.
See what happened, where, and why. down
to the commit that introduced the error,
the developer who shipped it, and the
exact [music] line of code all in one
connected view. I've definitely tried
the five tabs and Slack thread approach
to debugging. This is better. Sentry
shows you how the request moved, what
ran, what slowed down, and what users
saw. Seir, Sentry's AI debugging agent
takes it from there. It uses all of that
Sentry context to tell you the root
cause, suggest a fix, and even opens a
PR for you. It also [music] reviews your
PRs and flags any breaking changes with
fixes ready to go. Try Sentry and SER
for free [music] at centry.io/lenny
and use code Lenny for $100 in Sentry
credits. That's sen [music]
tr.io/lenny.
This episode is brought to you by Data
Dog, now home to EPO, the leading
experimentation and feature flagging
platform. Product managers at the
world's best companies use Data Dog, the
same platform their engineers rely on
every day to connect product insights to
product issues like bugs, UX friction,
and business impact. It starts with
product analytics where PMs can watch
replays, review funnels, dive into
retention, and explore their growth
metrics. Where other tools stop, Data
Dog goes even further. It helps you
actually diagnose the impact of funnel
drop offs and bugs and UX friction. Once
you know where to focus, experiments
prove what works. I saw this firsthand
when I was at Airbnb, where our
experimentation platform was critical
for analyzing what worked and where
things went wrong. And the same team
that built experimentation at Airbnb
built EPO. Beta Dog then lets you go
beyond the numbers with session replay.
Watch exactly how users interact with
heat maps and scroll maps to truly
understand their behavior. And all of
this is powered by feature flags that
are tied to real-time data so that you
can roll out safely, target precisely,
and learn continuously. Data Dog is more
than engineering metrics. It's where
great product teams learn faster, fix
smarter, and ship with confidence.
Request a demo at data dogq.com/lenny.
That's data dogq.com/lenny.
[music]
Brian, thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast.
>> Thanks for having me, Lenny.
>> It's my pleasure. I want to start with
something that I've heard your board
members, the way they described you is
uh someone with a perpetual state of
constructive dissatisfaction.
Do you think this is a core foundational
kind of uh trait of successful co
successful leaders?
>> By the way, I like that description. I
when she did a woman named Lori
Norington who's sub chair said that I
like it. I took it as kind of a
compliment. Um, and I and I liked it.
And as I so I spend most of my time
these days coaching
very fast growth CEOs. They all are kind
of like that. Um, they're they're all in
kind of a state of perfeual
dissatisfaction, but in a positive way.
One of the things, by the way, I like
about the current crop of CEOs,
they don't really take stock of what
they they've done and and feel it.
They're always a little bit dissatisfied
with where they are and very focused on
the end state. And I've been surprised
at how humble this generation is of
CEOs. And I think of my generation of
CEOs as being I don't know I wouldn't
humble wasn't the first word that would
come out of your mouth when you describe
kind of my generation but this
generation I feel like is is different.
Um and I've been impressed with it.
>> Okay. I have a bunch of questions along
these lines. Um because one you've been
a CEO of an incredibly successful
company for a long time for about 20
years before you moved on to this new
chapter. Now you work with a bunch of
CEOs. You're the you're Sequo's in-house
coach. There's a few things that I've
heard you do. One is you gather groups
of cos and uh what I've read is that you
have kind of two tables. You have the
kids table and the adults table. The
kids table of cos that are companies
that are about under 100 employees. The
adults table is over 100 employees. Uh
so let me ask you just when you look at
cos that move from the kids table to the
adult table other than just you know
they scale and grow. What is it that
these cos that graduate from kids to
adults table uh do differently?
>> The adults are are really focused on
and all they really want to talk about
is their exec team, their direct
reports. How do you build our exec team?
That next level down org design. You
would be surprised how much they think
about that. And on average, I would say
the adults are spending
half their time just recruiting and
interviewing. It's pretty all-consuming
and I remember that from that phase in
HubSpot's growth and it surprises people
like wow my job is really just to
interview and hire. I didn't know that
was going to be the case. Um so that is
one that they kind of are making that
transition and I would just say in
general
people are very bad at this and HubSpot
was too.
I think CEOs and everyone dramatically
overrates their ability to interview and
overrates their gut feeling and
underrates
a really high quality blind reference.
And I interviewed uh Dave, the CEO from
MongoDB the other day and he had an
interesting stat. On average over his
like 10year lifespan as a CEO of
there were two sea level two sea levels
turned over per year. That's a lot of
turnover at the top. And I didn't keep
track of it like Dave, but I'm think
HubSpot was kind of similar. And all of
these startups are kind of similar too.
And so people are working on that and
struggling with it uh as one thing in
common like with all of them.
>> What do you do when you coach someone on
that when you're like okay you think
you're amazing at interviewing, you
think you know who's going to work out?
What advice do you give them to help
them develop that skill?
>> I think even me, I've been doing this
for 150 years. I still think I over
ability to interview someone uh and
really know if they're a good fit. Um,
I give a couple pieces of advice. Parker
Conrad has a good hack that I like. Uh,
[snorts]
before he's got a sea level interview,
CFO, chief product officer, whatever, he
has him sign an NDA and sends them the
last board deck or the board memo or
some important doc, and he schedules a
halfhour interview with them. And he
just has a chat about the debt. And if
they're just very complimentary and it's
so great, you're doing this amazing
thing, it's a major red flag to him
because he wants someone that will
challenge him and not a yes person. And
I thought that was a pretty good hack to
get inside someone's head and how they
think and how they'll interact with you.
Um, getting on a whiteboard and working
through a problem, I think, is always a
good thing. I think the standard
interview of walking through your
background, I don't think is all that
valuable. Um, and I coach people to do
blind references. Find someone you know
that work with them. VCs are good at
this, by the way. And
I get a lot of these and you can tell
some of them are like, "We've already
decided we're checking the box versus
they're asking me hard questions about
this person." And one of my favorite
questions people ask is, "Would you
enthusiastically rehire this person for
that role?" which I think is a really
good question. On a scale of 1 to 10,
how likely is it that you'll try to
rehire this person back from me down the
road? I think those types of questions
are good. So, not mailing in on those
blind references, I think, are
is really good. My other piece of
advice, and no one listens to me on
this, is is hire slow and fire fast. Um
people hire fast and fire slow. Uh, and
if I had to guess, Lenny,
within 18 months after you hire a seale
exec, at least 50% of the time they're
gone. There's this there's [laughter]
high mortality rate on them. It's it's
harder than people think.
>> And what so what you're saying here is
there's only so much you can actually do
to increase those odds.
>> I think you can I I I think you can you
can um I think the blind references are
key. I think doing like real interactive
working on a project together. I'll tell
you one other thing we learned at
HubSpot about this like we would have a
candidate come in let's say a head of
engineering
and we'd have like eight people
interview them and our scale is one one
to four and let's say four people were
four out of four and four people were
two out of four. So that's candidate A
and then the next candidate comes in
eight people interview them and
everyone's a three out of four. Almost
every time we hired the three out of
four, like the person with the least
amount of weaknesses
and we changed it and we we went with
the spikier people. We went with people
with weaknesses. We went with people
with challenge stuff. And that has
worked out quite well. Like our hit rate
at HubSpots improved. We also have
shrunk the the pool of people on that
interview panel from eight to like four.
Like we just hired a a head of product
and there were just four of us that
interviewed them. I think that worked
too. Um, so I think there's things you
can do to get better at it for sure.
>> Okay, this is incredibly tactical and
useful. On the references piece, uh, the
toughest part is getting people to be
honest because there's very little
upside to them to say negative things
about people. Is there anything that
you've learned to help get real honest
answers from folks you call for
references?
>> Well, I can just say because I don't do
this a lot anymore, but when people call
me, I can tell if they've already
decided. Mhm.
>> When they're really just looking for
like [snorts] when they ask me for the
strengths and weaknesses, I'm like or
they've already decided. When they ask
me something hard like on a scale of 1
to 10, how likely are you to hire them
again? Stuff like that that kind of gets
at the core. Or were they the top 1% of
your employees? That's a good question.
Oh, were they top 10? Oh, you know, that
type of question is pretty good. Uh, so
when I'm on the other side of it, I like
when I like when those types of
questions come up. I tell you the other
mistake everyone makes I made and all
the CEOs are making now is
you're hiring for that whatever head of
engineering
and you're blown away by the resume like
you're 50 employees and you're hiring
this person who's been at Microsoft the
last 10 years and has a fancy title and
fancy division in Microsoft and you hire
them there's just a massive impedance
mismatch when you hire them on what
their expectations are what your
expectations are in the in the in the
extent that you've got your
together.
It's just you don't you definitely don't
uh if you're 50 or 500 employees and
they expect you to have your act
together and so that is another like
avoid the big company hire like we hired
so many people from Salesforce and
Google Microsoft
like 100% you know attrition rate on all
those folks. Something that I've seen at
a lot of companies is there's like
phases of like, okay, now it's like the
McKenzie a cohort comes in and we think
that's going to be the answer and then
it's the Apple group and then that
didn't work out. Then the Amazon group,
>> the Mackenzie one never works.
[laughter] It never works.
It never works. Like by definition, they
would fail on my spectrum of like most
founders are like me. Like they are
skeptical of conventional wisdom.
They're unhappy with the world works in
some way. And so they're kind of far on
that spectrum of of rethinking
conventional wisdom. And almost by
definition, somebody who goes to work
for McKenzie is very conservative in
their outlook. Um, and so I think that
almost always fails.
>> We're on this hiring kind of thread, so
let me keep following this conversation.
Uh, I read somewhere that you recommend
building your team like the 2004 Red
Sox.
What does this mean? I'm a Well, I'm a
big sports fan. a big Boston Red Sox and
the Boston Red Sox hadn't won Lenny a
World Series in 86 years since they
traded
>> and they finally broke they finally won
it in 2004 and the way they won it was
they had a team of a bunch of homegrown
really high quality inexpensive talent
that they drafted and came through the
farm system and then they got a few free
agents like David Ortiz that a lot of
people have heard of that they paid a
fair amount of money to Pedro Martine
Pedro Martinez as and Kurt Schilling
were kind of the canonical older been
that been there done that bigger company
folks and they mixed really nicely. The
culture really worked and I think that's
the key. I think people underrate their
homegrown talent like almost across the
board they underrated and I think you
want that mix. You don't want to hire a
whole bunch of been there done that. You
don't want to hire none of them.
>> I don't I imagine this is public but
you're now a part owner of the Red Sox.
Is that
>> I am the part owner of the Red Sox. Yes.
>> Okay. I have questions for you along
those lines. Okay.
>> Okay. That's uh that's amazing advice.
Uh kind of what I'm taking away here is
people see all these fancy logos,
amazing person, VP this, that at
Salesforce, Amazon, Google, whatever.
And what you're saying here is uh don't
underestimate the power of someone
internal uh rising to the occasion.
>> Yeah. If you look at HubSpot, like half
the management teams are folks that have
been there for approximately 150 years,
which I like. And same with like you
look at Apple, a lot of those people are
homegrown. And so is there any tips here
for doing this? Well, is it just like
give people a chance?
>> I tend to give people a chance. It's
like if you're interviewing someone
that's homegrown in their VP for that
seale job versus hiring someone from the
outside. You hire someone from the
outside. They're very good at
interviewing from a big company. They
look fancy. They're shiny. You haven't
seen their warts. Hard to figure out
their warts unless you're very good at
plan referencing. And so you tend to
overrate them and underrate your
homegrown. So, if it's pretty close, I
think you'd give your homegrown shot at
it. What's interesting to me, Lenny, is,
you know, Brian Chesy sort of rethought
a lot of this stuff. And he's like,
everyone's over over rotating to the
home grow to the um, you know,
experienced talent and management teams
and delegation. And I think he's mostly
right about that. People haven't really
followed that. People are, you know,
they're hiring people from the outside
quite a bit. That's kind of the standard
part of the playbook that all of them
are following now. It's a little
different. It's actually quite different
than what Brian's espousing.
>> Going back to the conversation around
CEOs. A lot of people listening to this
podcast, there's a lot of people in the
world want to be founders. They want to
be CEOs. At the same time, you look at
Elon, you look at Jensen, you look at
Steve Jobs, you look at you. A lot of
people are like, I can't. I'm not this
person. I'm not I'm not going to be as
good as them. How there's no world where
I'm this good. Do you feel like there
are specific profiles or just like
traits that you have to be born with to
be a successful CEO or do you think it's
all learnable? Anybody can be successful
if they really work hard in school. I
meet all these CEOs coming in and I have
a little like algorithm in my head and I
look for four things. [laughter] I call
it my lock algorithm. L is for lovable.
And
you know, Steve Jobs, you would say, is
kind of rough and maybe not lovable, but
he would inspire followership. You would
want to follow him. And so, could I
envision a 28-year-old me graduating
from business school going to work for
this person? Would I crawl across broken
glass? That's question one.
Two is just obsession. Are they deeply
obsessed with this problem? Did they I'm
a little negative on people who came up
with this problem to solve six months
ago and started a company. I like people
with deep founder market fit who've been
thinking about it for a long time and
have evidence in their lives of going
deep down obsessively down a rabbit hole
because that's kind of what it takes to
be a founder CEO. The C is something I
wouldn't have thought of, but this is a
sequoia thing like chip on the shoulder.
Pretty much all of them have a bit be
like a boulder on their shoulder. And I
I have a bit of a chip on my shoulder,
too. And the K is just for deeply
knowledgeable about the domain. [snorts]
And so I kind of look for that. Um, if I
were to stick an S on it, I would say
student. Like I look at Winston Weinberg
from um Harvey or James from Profound or
Gabe from Rogo, some of these new very
fast growing companies. They're students
of the game. They're not just learn it
alls. They're deep, deep, deep students
of the game. And they're they're like
LLMs. They're constantly constantly
learning. and it's not just learning
stuff for me and their peers, but they
go way back in time and have a lot of
history on stuff. So, those are some of
the that's kind of my little criteria I
use when I'm evaluating CEOs. What do
you look for, by the way? You've
interviewed you've interviewed a ton of
folks like me. What do you think's in
common
>> of what successful founders? Oh my god,
I wish I had the uh my succinct answer.
I would ask I would go to lennybot.com
and be like, what is the common pattern
across these folks? One that you didn't
mention that I think is interesting. I
did some research on this recently with
Terren Rohan. When it's just extremely
ambitious, just trying to do something
really wild that most people are like
that's crazy. You're not going to like
get a subscription service for all music
in the world. That's just what are you
doing? Do it and you're going to do
that.
>> And like is it learnable? I know notice
some of the a lot of the CEOs struggling
with a couple things. Like let's say
you're you're Winston, your late 20s,
you've never managed a team. you're
probably never even captain of a sports
team before.
And in order to scale, like you have to
give people feedback like constantly and
it's very unnatural. It's like I'm going
to give this this VP I hired a bunch of
feedback, positive and negative. And if
you don't get good at that, you pay
really pay the price later.
That's something I think they have to
learn. They all have to learn to get a
good detector.
They're constantly being spun.
Everyone's trying to sell to them. The
org is always trying to sell to them.
So, that's sort of something they have
to develop, you know, over time. They
have to all get good at the inspiration
thing over time. Like you're you're
Winston. You've never had to inspire
anyone in your entire life. You know,
[snorts] you're you went to school and
you're a lawyer for a few years and you
started this thing. Like inspiration
wasn't your thing. So there's certain
things you have to kind of learn on that
startup to scale up path and the best
ones learn it very fast.
>> This is extremely interesting and
useful. So lock uh with an s at the end
just to kind of mirror back what you're
sharing. So what you and when you were
saying you evaluate cos is this for like
investing as a okay so when you're
helping Sequoia decide should we invest
in this company what you look for is uh
locks I like the s I'm going to include
it there. So are they lovable? Are they
inspiring? Uh, oh, are they obsessed
with this problem they're going after?
Uh, do they have a chip on their
shoulder? Are they extremely
knowledgeable about the problem they're
going after? And it sounds like not just
the problem, but just the studying
company's business strategy, things like
that.
>> And then S was a student. I guess that's
what S is student is studying this uh
being a founder, being a CEO. Okay. So,
I guess going back just to the question,
do you think just to put it very simply,
do you think CEOs are are born or do you
think they're made? Can anyone turn into
an amazing student?
>> I don't think anyone can do it. I don't
think it's just anyone. I I will say
I've noticed that so another little
rubric I have and I don't see a lot of
these but like Brett Taylor's one.
There's a few out there that are in
Koa's portfolio. I call them a back to
the baseball thing, a 52 player. In
baseball when you rank a player, it's
can they hit? Can they hit with power?
Can they run? Can they catch a ball? Can
they throw the ball? And they they rate
them kind of one to 10 at each. And it's
very rare that you have a five tool
player, like extremely rare. And
the thing that's kind of new now are
there are five tool CEOs like Brett
Taylor's one. You can code, you have
taste, you have vision, you can sell the
product, you can convince employees like
this kind of super CEO. And there's a
bunch of them now. And
I don't know, I didn't see a lot of
those. That certainly wasn't Steve Jobs.
He wasn't writing pro, he wasn't
programming. Um, it wasn't Jeff Bezos.
Uh, you know, I think there's kind of a
new breed that's quite impressive.
>> These folks you mentioned, uh, were this
good before AI became a thing. I imagine
AI helps more cos fill the gaps that
they have.
>> I think it's it's hard to fill the gap
of, you know, this guy's a developer.
He's brilliant, genius level, obsessive,
but can he convince can he sell? Can he
convince an investor to give him a lot
of money at a high valuation? Can he
convince brilliant employees to leave
OpenAI and join him? Um, can he convince
some big skeptical Fortune 500
enterprise to buy his product? Like
being able to do that and have taste and
be able to code really well at next
levels, I think is rare. I actually
think it might be the other way though
where mere mortals like me who can kind
of code all of a sudden we're going to
be able to build stuff. I think it kind
of goes the other way. I love this list
you shared of things that you find cos
most have to learn. Uh BS detection, uh
inspiring people, giving heart feedback.
What's maybe like the one thing that
most often people that become cos
founders have to work on? Is there like
a most common thread of like here's the
thing you probably need to work on most?
It's that feedback thing.
All of the CEOs are building their teams
and so many are like, I have a
co-founder that runs product and
engineering, but I need that co-founder
to kind of step aside
and be the CTO and the thinker and the
labs person, and I need to hire somebody
who can actually run the engineering
machine. Like so many of the CEOs are
going through that right now. Uh that's
a tricky transition. So many of the CEOs
are layering folks like you hired that
early head of sales. He hired 10 people
but just can't quite figure out the
sales profile. Can't quite unpack the
sales process. Can't quite forecast
accurately. We need to layer the person.
You know, those types of conversations
are very tricky and quite unnatural for
homo sapiens to have if you're, you
know, you're 25 and you've never done
anything like that before. So, I see the
best ones getting really good at that
and studying it. It and it's it's super
uncomfortable, but they have to kind of
suck it up and get good at it.
>> What do you find most helps them build
these skills, get better at this? Is
there some kind of tidbits of advice you
give them? Is it something that they
study to improve? I
>> I think misery loves company on this. of
what I do. Like the kids table is 15
CEOs of companies under 100 employees
and the adults table are CEOs of
companies over 100 employees about 15 of
them. They talk about this with each
other. It's kind of a safe space and I
can weigh in, but it's actually much
more effective when their peers weigh
in. I think misery really does like
company on stuff like this. They learn
from each other.
So essentially it's find peers to talk
to and share and be component of
>> and the reason I break it out is like
the problems at the kids table are very
different than the problems at the adult
table. Um and and they all they all rhy
they rhyme a lot.
>> So you teach a course at MIT around
scaling startups and it's specifically
around scaling not startups not starting
the company and you have this quote in
your uh syllabus starting a company has
never been easier scaling one into a
durable high impact organization has
never been harder. Why is that the case?
I mean, has it ever been easier to start
a company? It's
>> absolutely true. [laughter]
>> And the flip side of that is
I mean, how many companies is the the
the number of companies formed is going
to mushroom over the next 10 years
relative to the last 10 years. And the
the last 10 years compared to the
previous 10 years is mushroom. I just
think in my life like I'm old and when I
was a kid I'd walked into CVS corn
drugstore and I want to buy a tooth
toothbrush
there four or five there you pick one
and
you know in the n in like the 90s or
2000s you go to Amazon there are four or
5,000 toothbrushes [laughter] four or
5,000 companies creating those
toothbrushes it got much much easier to
make stuff and even technology AWS just
made it easier to start a software
company. So, it's like a huge jump back
then when we started up about 2006, but
now it's going to be an even bigger
jump. So, it's easier to start now.
There's so much noise in in con in uh
competition, it's just going to be hard
to stand out and really accelerate and
scale. So, that's why I say it's never
been easier to start. There's never been
more competition. It's never been harder
to scale.
>> And a big part of this is is
distribution essentially. Breaking
through the noise is what I'm hearing.
>> And it's hard to learn that like you
didn't grow up doing distribution. You
don't know. So they they're all learning
it. Um and the ones that learn fast,
it's like a learning game. The faster
you learn, you know, the better you do.
>> Along these lines, I saw you tweet this
recently where uh people talk about
which jobs AI is going to replace and
you uh said that sales is maybe the last
job AI will replace. What why do you
think that's the case? Well, if you look
inside a typical enterprise, like
where's AI like really working?
Let's say inside of HubSpot, software
development is working incredibly well.
[laughter]
Uh customer support incredibly well.
Um legal starting to work incredibly
well, but there really aren't apps like
in the rest of the org that have really
changed things a lot. And in the go to
market side's been kind of slow uh
really just support like there isn't
like a canonical marketing or sales or
maybe the BDR is the first one but I
think ye old enterprise sales where
there's actual trust built up between
two carbon based life forms I think will
be very very very late to go in the
white collar world. I also I think a lot
about the go to market.
I think the go to market's going to get
turned on and said like when I when we
started HubSpot if I think of the way
the funnel worked you want to get found
in Google someone clicks on a blue link
they land on your website they go down
the rabbit hole they clicked on contact
sales they wait until that sales rep's
ready go down that rabbit hole and I
think it's going to get turned on its
head where people are evaluating a
product they start in Gemini or they
start in Anthropic or they start in chat
BT and you know for example chat knows
way about
It knows everything on your website,
everything beyond that knows all your
competitors. So they they will stay in
there and do lots more research and be
incredibly well educated. So your
website's a lot less important and they
go to your site. I think sites will
change where you're going to have a
really high quality avatar that knows
everything about your products, knows
everything about your company and your
pricing and packaging and you can have a
high quality conversation with that
person. that person that will get stored
in your CRM and and will get um you know
scored this is good quality conversation
and then the sales rep will follow up
but that sales rep will being an avatar
with them on every sales call you won't
have to wait for their SE they'll have
their own SE that's all knowing that
will follow them through the process so
go to market hasn't changed much yet but
I think over time it's going to change a
lot this avatar just understand so this
is uh the buyer has their own little
agent that comes with them or on
HubSpot, you have this avatar that walks
you through the sales process.
>> I I I I I think both. I think me as a
knowledge worker,
>> like what I really want as a homo sapien
is I have like a deli clone that I
really like.
>> Same.
>> It's actually quite good.
>> Yeah. Where where do people find yours?
>> Uh they find it on my footer. They can
find it on
>> del. We'll link to it.
>> Yeah. And what I want is like connect
that that thing to my email into my
granola into my plaude and it knows
everything about me. And then when I go
to a meeting, Lenny, I want to invite I
want to invite that thing to my meeting.
So it's sitting there in the Zoom
meeting. It's not just taking notes like
granola. It's a participant. So if I
forgot something, I asked it a question.
If somebody else forgot like I think
every knowledge worker will have one of
these in three, four, five years. But
mine was more on the go to market side
where I think every website will change
and there'll be a an all- knowing avatar
on that homepage. And if it's a
considered purchase, I think it gets
handed off to a sales rep. That sales
rep has a conversation, but when that
sales rep's on Zoom, they have their SE
avatar that's kind of all knowing. So, I
think this stuff all changes a lot in
the next few years, but it hasn't really
unlocked yet.
>> What are we going to be doing in this
world? These two bots chatting with each
other.
>> It's going to be great, Lenny. You and I
are gonna be like sitting on a
>> podcasting kickos relaxing on a
monthlong vacation sending our avatars
to all the meetings.
>> Go buy me some Hub Hubspot seats,
please. I think this is why Cloudbot was
so popular. I think this is essentially
what they're building is this idea which
is now called Moldbot, which might be
changing again. Uh it's just like this
personal little agent that can go do
stuff for you.
>> Totally.
So you're talking about the future of go
to market is this world where there's
these little bots and agents that are
doing things for you both on on both
sides. When you look at companies today
that you work with that are doing well
that are especially AIdriven companies
what are they doing differently in terms
of go to market that is working really
well?
>> Honestly the only thing that's different
today it's exactly the same as it's been
for 100 years except they call their
sees or their system consultants for
deployed engineers. the rest [laughter]
of it is the same. I thought it would be
totally different in AI. I'm working
with all these companies. They're hiring
like all the same folks and running the
same enterprise sales processes. So, it
hasn't changed that much, at least on
the enterprise side. It actually hasn't.
I spent the first 10 years of my career
at a company called PTC, which is like
an enterprise sales machine. Enterprise
sales hasn't changed that much since the
1990s.
>> Okay. And so, for a deployed engineer,
very hot term. Uh the idea there is they
come work with the the c the customer
and help them implement this thing. And
that that's come up a lot on this
podcast just with AI tools. Rarely are
they just plug-and-play. You can't you
can't just like set up some agent that
figures everything out. Takes a lot of
onboarding and integration. Is it
actually a different thing at all other
versus like sales engineering in the
past things like that?
>> It's a solutions consultant sales
engineer. They're technical. They help
you implement it. They connect all your
systems. They customize it. It's
different. I mean, you're training it in
a different way, but I think well,
anyway, I think the term is fine. I I'm
sort of being light on it because boy,
it looks similar, except that role has a
different name to it.
>> Got it. So, if anything, the advice I'm
hearing here is just lean into this uh
continue to lean into this idea of
having your employees help the customer
on board, be successful, integrate, all
that stuff. I think the thing that will
change first is the top of the funnel
around getting found in instead of
Google, you got to get found in in in
these
>> Yeah. AEO.
>> Yeah, that's going to be really
important. And the way you build your
website is very different for that to
optimize for it. Um and then your I
think your homepage is totally
different. I think you land on an avatar
and have a conversation with them versus
you're going through all the pages on
your site. I I think the top of the
funnel is about to change a lot.
>> Is anyone doing this well yet? this idea
of this avatar or is this just kind of a
in the future?
>> If you start a program, HubSpot does it.
We built we built one. It's working.
>> Okay. Okay. Um let me ask one more
question around CO stuff and then I want
to move on to haganisms.
>> All right.
>> Um
>> how is just being a CEO different than
it was? So you've been doing this for
20ish years.
>> Yeah.
>> Um what's like most different about what
it was like to be a CEO maybe 10 20
years ago versus today? One of my CEO, I
was actually Winston from um Harvey said
this like a year ago and I was like
that's But I actually think he
was right. He's like you can just do a
lot more. I mean you've got AI agents
doing stuff. Everyone's more productive.
The software developers are more
productive. Like something that used to
take you a year takes two months now.
And so the amount of projects and the
amount of stuff you can do is much much
more. I think he's right. I think that's
a little dangerous. Like let's say you
found your beach head market and that
beach head market is really good and
it's very deep. There's a lot of work to
do. I think what's dangerous for
companies is they hop to that second act
too quickly. Uh and they lose focus on
that first act. And this isn't a
completely perfect analogy but like you
think of OpenAI and CHPT and it's a
consumer app is doing incredible and
they're doing lots and lots and lots and
lots of other things and then Gemini
comes out and they've kind of focused
back on the core. Uh I think there's a
lot of competition. Everything's moving
fast. I I do think people get more done
and I think that impacts everything.
Like the planning cycles used to be a
year. I think the planning cycles now
are 3 months long.
Yeah, that's a big change. I think it
puts pressure on the CEOs to be faster
and better
decision makers. Um
like I just think of times in HubSpot
when things slowed down and there was
churn. It was usually my fault. It was
because there were some hard, you know,
one-way door type decisions on my desk.
And, you know, maybe every year I would
sit down and I' I'd open that oneway
door or close it and it just freed
everyone up and we just started moving
so much faster. I think people need to
be making those decisions and walking
through those doors much more quickly
than they used to. I think that's new
and different. Different. I was someone
who always valued optionality. I think
there's a massive tax in optionality
when you can move this fast and try a
lot of things. So, I do think the job's
changing a lot.
>> Yeah. And there's so many reasons this
is happening. One is just technology is
just like every week there's a new shift
in what is possible.
>> So, if you're spending all these months
thinking and planning just like what a
waste of time it ends up being cuz so
much is changing. And
>> I know. Yeah. It's hard to keep up.
>> [laughter]
>> Luckily, we got some sweet podcasts to
check out to keep up to date with what's
happening. We'll link to yours, of
course. Here's a puzzle for you. What do
OpenAI, Cursor, Perplexity, Versel,
Platt, and hundreds of other winning
companies have in common? The answer is
they're all powered by today's sponsor,
Work [music] OS. If you're building
software for enterprises, you've
probably felt the pain of integrating
single signon, skim, arbback, [music]
audit logs, and other features required
by big customers. Work OS turns those
deal blockers into drop-in [music] APIs
with a modern developer platform built
specifically for B2B SAS. Whether you're
a seedstage startup trying to land your
first enterprise customer or a unicorn
expanding globally, work OS is the
fastest path to becoming enterprise
ready and unlocking growth. They're
essentially Stripe for enterprise
features. Visit workos.com to get
started or just hit up their Slack
support where they have real engineers
in there who answer [music] your
questions super fast. Work OS allows you
to build like the best with delightful
APIs, comprehensive docs, and a smooth
developer experience. Go to works.com to
make your app enterprise ready. Today,
let's talk hagganisms. Essentially,
these are nuggets of wisdom and advice
that you find yourself sharing often.
You've written a bunch of these about a
bunch of these online. Um, and so let me
just go through them and then just share
share kind of the synopsis of the advice
and the lesson around this halaganism.
The first is when you have to eat a
sandwich, don't nibble. Okay, completely
stole this from Ruth Porat, the CEO, the
CFO of Google. I saw her quote
somewhere. I'm like, that's it. She's
put put a perfect thing on it. And I'll
give you an example where I think this
will play out over the next couple
years. I think within the next couple
years
there'll be a real retrenchment in
valuations and some some will live up to
valuations a lot won't and like if I
look at the public markets they're very
tight right now it's like the
anti-bubble I look at private valuations
it's like a real bubble I think there's
a reckoning somewhere down the road and
a lot of companies are going to have to
do layoffs a lot
it's never fun it's usually the worst
thing in the history of your life and
the temptation is to do well just do a
little one now and we'll grow into it
and then do another and then they do
another one in six months and then
another one. I think with everything
including this type of thing is just rip
the darn band-aid off. Tell everyone the
bad news. They're adults. They can
handle it and get it done. Um and I
think people avoid that. I I think
that's good advice Ruth Ruth Porat's
giving because you're going to have bad
news to deliver. Bad shit's going to
happen to your company. Even if it looks
like it's going amazing right now,
you're gonna
weird stuff's going to happen and you're
gonna have to deal with it. And and we
had a lot of weird stuff happen at Hub
HubSpot and
[sighs]
and there there's a basketball coach
named uh Mike Shashesky.
He's Duke's basketball coach, all-time
winningest college basketball coach
ever. If you go to a Duke basketball
game, [snorts] you can hear him yelling
from the si sidelines, "Let's play.
Let's play. And what's going on there is
when a college basketball player
is playing in the game and takes a shot
and clanks it off the rim and misses it,
they have a strong tendency to go play
overly aggressively on defense in the
back court and many times compound their
error by making a foul or something like
that. And what he wants to do is people
to make their error, forget about it,
and move back down the other side of the
court and run the play. And so we used
we actually there were times in
HubSpot's history where we had the Mike
Shasheesky's face on a huge slide in
front of the company meeting saying next
play because there was an unforced error
and we need to deal with it and kind of
move on.
>> Is there a story of that that comes to
mind that is uh interesting and worth
getting into? There's a lot of them, but
I remember in 2000, it was the end, it
was the last day of March in 2019,
and
we had a really bad outage like all day.
And we never really had one of those.
And um
it was bad. Customers were unhappy. A
lot of customers canled. I had a lot of
customers yelling at me. And I remember
that company meeting. I cried in front
of the whole company. He couldn't
believe it happened to us. And I
remember using the next the next play
um slide on that one. Um yeah,
>> most of we made a lot of mistakes at
HubSpot. A lot of bad things happen to
companies and most of them are
self-inflicted
>> and a lot of them are the old the old
saw like
companies are far more likely to die of
of of overeating than indigestion.
Usually it was trying to do too much. I
haven't heard that version. I've always
heard most companies die of suicide
versus homicide.
Indigest too. [laughter]
>> Oh man. Um, okay. So, uh, next
hagganism. Uh, never waste a good
crisis. This something that people hear.
I'm curious just just kind of like
what's the what's the lesson here? And
then is there an example of this that
where you learned those lessons? I'll
just follow on to most of the good
things that happened at housewife came
out of a crisis because we would take,
you know, pretty drastic measures to fix
it and make sure we didn't do the same
thing again. And so in this particular
case, we really rethought how we
deployed software, how we thought about
making software
in in a way that was incredibly healthy.
And I mean, we we haven't had a serious
outage since. Um the quality is much
better. And kind of an interesting thing
with HubSpot is we started as a
marketing software company and we
pivoted we had Salesforce kind of came
into our market we pivoted into CRM and
one thing that we if if your marketing
software goes down like if your workflow
if there's a bug in the workflows or
something like that it's bad but you
survive it you wait a little bit if your
CRM goes down particularly the last day
of the quarter you're really impacting
your customers ability to do business.
So that was like a mindset shift that we
hadn't quite come to terms with of how
important we were to our customers. And
so we made a lot of changes based on
that crisis. You know, good things come
out of you. Usually very good things
came out of crisis.
>> So there's a lesson there. Something's
going wrong. Is it just like
overcorrect? Like use this as a way to
>> we always overcorrected. Yeah. Swung the
we almost we purposely swung the
pendulum hard the other way. M which
connects to the first uh halaganism of
uh if you're eating a sandwich,
don't nibble. Just it's almost like go
all the way, go even further.
>> Yes. Make it really obvious to everyone
what's going on.
>> Okay. Another hagganism. If you want to
kill a plant, have two people water it.
>> I love this one. It's very true. Let's
say, Lenny, you bought a new beautiful
plant for your office and then you went
away for a month to Turks and Caos
because your AI agents doing your
podcast and you asked two of your
friends, hey, can you would you mind
watering my plant and there's one of two
outcomes would happen to the plant. The
plant would either be over watered and
die or not watered at all and die. And
every CEO in the adults table has gone
through this and they are religious
about the DRRI. Like everyone talks
about DRRi in the in the kids table, but
once it gets to the adults table, like
people get deep religion on it. And and
I think it makes sense like when you're
small and you're in startup mode,
everyone's in the room, everyone knows
exactly what's going on. So let's say
you're running a pilot project with a
big account. You're running that pilot
project, everyone's on the same page, a
salesperson, a service person,
developer, everyone's on the same page,
and you go out and do it. You execute
well. When you get it scale, you get a
sales organization, you've got your
forward deploy and engineer
organization, you've got your product
management organization, you got some
developers working on it. Everyone's
kind of separate. No one knows really
what's going on in the other
departments. And so, let's say you want
to really have a good pilot process. You
want to rethink it because you're
scaling.
Everything important happens crossf
functionally inside a company at scale
and you need someone powerful uh to own
it. Uh, so let's say it's a salesperson.
They need the power to like tell people
in other divisions what to do, even if
they don't own it. So almost every CEO I
deal with is is like a zealot on the
DRRi idea. And it doesn't bite you until
you get to some sort of scale. And to be
super clear about the advice here, it's
one person is responsible for a goal, a
metric, some outcome you want versus uh
it may feel like, okay, we have two
people on this, it'll be awesome,
they'll work together. Your advice here
is that doesn't work. Committees never
work. Yes. Yes. It's in DRRI is directly
responsible individual.
>> The way I always uh thought about this
is just having someone's ass on the line
for something uh makes them so motivated
to get it done versus like spreading,
you know, the responsibility and the up
and the upside and the downside. It just
doesn't work.
>> I totally agree with you.
>> Awesome. Okay. Uh another algism, I
don't know if you put it this way, the
way I think about it is this idea of
there's no such thing as a silver
bullet. there just it just takes a lot
of lead bullets to get something done. I
think the way you wrote about it is it's
always like one step forward, two steps
back. Talk about your advice there.
Yeah, I always thought incorrectly that
we would have one hire or one investor
or one event or one product release that
would I was wrong about this, but it'd
be a silver bullet and and like the
reality inside the HubSpot machine, the
way it felt to me, it looks from the
outside like over a long time up and to
the right and smooth, but inside it was
two steps forward, one step back, two
steps forward, one step back, two steps
forward, one step back. Um, and a lot of
times it was a crisis that caused that
step back. Um, so we just didn't have
that. I And the thing about being a
founder CEO is there's no one,
especially when you're in your 20s,
there's no one there to rescue you. Your
parents aren't going to rescue you. Your
VC is not going to rescue you. Your
teacher, your thesis advisor, you're
kind of on your own and you got to
figure it out. And that kind of hits you
when you hit your first crisis. Like
it's on you. You can get some help, but
it's on you.
>> Sometimes they have you in their corner
if they're lucky at Sequoa. Plug
>> I can't oftenimes. I can be the shoulder
they cry on and I can give them advice,
but it's still on them.
>> Do you feel like too many people start
companies just like like when someone
comes to you like, "Hey, Brian, should I
start should I start a company of this
idea?" Do you often just like
>> No, you don't have no idea what you're
getting into. This is going to be much
more painful. I heard Jensen Hong say
that like I wouldn't start [laughter]
Nvidia if I had it to do over.
I that if someone asked me that question
I would start HubSpot over. It was very
hard. Um there were a lot of sacrifices.
It wasn't glamorous at all
and but in the end of the day I'm
incredibly proud of it and you know you
know on my death bed I'm going to look
back and be and really enjoy it. And the
Daly Lama's got a good expression like
live a good life so you can live it
again on your deathbed. And I'm really
glad I did it. But I do talk a lot of f
lot lot of founders out of it. Like the
obsession is real. It's it's you have to
be deeply obsessed. And all these all
these founders and CEOs I talk to, I
mean people talk about 996. It's way
more than that. I mean the founders are
seven days a week. They're always on. I
text from them on Sunday nights. Um,
it's full contact. And I think what's
going on there, particularly now, is
people just see this massive platform
change, massive opportunity. They don't
want to waste the opportunity. So, I
think that mindset's right. But people
today are much more
much more hardcore than they were in my
era. Like, I worked hard. I was probably
I was 60 to 70 week hours a week for the
entire time. Never really turned it off,
but that's kind of how I thought about
it. It's different now. People are much
more focused. And I think Elon's
inspired people like
>> I had a starter back in the day and
nowhere near as successful as HubSpot.
But the way I thought about it is let me
just give it everything I have and see
what I can do. This is nichot. This is
my chance. Let me just give it all like
forget balance. Just go for it seven
days a week for a while. You know, then
you scale back. Um and it's just like
such an empowering thing to do for a
while. Just like let me just try. I'll
give it my this won't be forever.
>> Yeah.
And I know you've written about this
just like balance for co is not you
should not have work life balance if you
want to be uh incredibly successful. I
don't know if that's always true but
just what's I don't know how do you talk
about that to founders?
>> I don't know any of the founders I work
with that have work life balance. By the
way, this is not something I recommend.
Um I didn't have it. I don't think my
co-founder Dash had it. None of the C
the only CI C CEO I know and he's he's
unusual in this way is Kareem from Clay.
He's like, "Nope, you need balance. Take
the weekends." Like, he's got a
different mindset. I'm going to have him
on my pod to to talk about his mindset,
but he's sort of the outlier. Everyone
else is really really obsessed and they
really don't have much of a life.
>> It did take them a long time to find
product market fit.
We're definitely pre AI. [laughter]
>> Wonder if there's a correlation, but it
did work out. So,
>> great.
>> So, it is a it is a good lesson. Okay.
Uh a few more here. One is uh it's a
math formula. EV is greater than TV is
greater than me. What is that?
>> Okay. EV is enterprise value. TV is your
team's value. Me is your value. And as
HubSpot was scaling
and we had a lot of people who were VPs
in different roles and they started to
get goodsiz organizations
where they would fall down was they
didn't solve for me but they'd solve for
TV over EV. It's all for their own team.
So let's say they ran sales. and say I
just want bookings to be as high as
possible because I get paid on bookings
and the service team can handle all the
downstream problems I created uh
marketing to sales between every
department this happened and the kind of
immature managers who didn't scale
really saw for themselves and sub as
they saw for themselves kind of
suboptimized for their peers and the and
their employees would notice it and
complain about it. Um, it would be fine
in the short term, but it would show up.
And the place it would show up, Lenny,
was we did, and I think a lot of
companies do this now, but we did a
quarterly employee net promoter. We did
a quarterly customer net promoter survey
and a quarterly employee one. And we
would we would have people rate it by
the department they're in. And one
interesting thing about that,
so it's like sales and service and
engineering, all the different
departments. And we had an overall net
promoter score. And then each department
had a net promoter score. And let's just
take sales. Sales net promoter score was
like 65, 62, 68, 30. Ooh, that's a big
drop. And then you read the comments and
it was not good. A lot of complaints
about the leader of that. And a lot of
the complaints were a little bit of this
TV thing. Um and then we give feedback
to that VP would help them. We give them
all the comments be like you got this
and then a quarter later from 30 to neg
five. It almost they almost never they
never actually recovered. When you lose
your team you kind of can't it's hard to
get them back. Um and that's why I say
you know higher slow fire fast. And this
doesn't show up in the first 100 150
employees. Everyone's solving for EV,
but as it gets bigger and the CEO
doesn't know anyone and there's a couple
layers between you and the employees,
they tend to solve for TV. So, we always
put on the wall, solve for EV over TV
over MV, and then we added CV in front
of EV. Solve for the customers first,
then for HubSpot, then the employee,
then yourself. Um, that was very helpful
to us.
>> Yeah. Uh I imagine everybody listening
working at a big company understands
this where you have goals you get your
KPIs and your performance reviews based
on what impact you drive if you hit your
goals and so you know everyone's the
incentives are focus on my goals and
drive those and I don't care about other
people's goals the company's goals Steve
Steve Jobs had an interesting line he
says you don't work for your boss you
work for Apple
>> I thought that was pretty good and
that's I I heard that after I was CEO of
HubSpot but that kind of captures the
sentiment And that's how I felt about
HubSpot. You work for HubSpot first and
then you work for your boss.
>> This is hard because you know people's
performance reviews are based on their
goals, KPIs. It's always like here's
what I got to drive. Uh other than
putting posters on the wall and this is
our just HubSpot
growth above all is what matters or
customers I guess in your case. Is there
anything tactically that was useful in
helping people prioritize enterprise
value?
>> This was explicitly called out in the
form for the employee. You know, when
you got your review, this was part of
it. And so they get they get a score of
one to I forget 10 on that. I would talk
about it constantly and I when we first
started HubSpot I ran it a little bit
like Jensen runs Nvidia where
I didn't do one-on ones and I gave a lot
of good and bad feedback publicly in
large management team meetings and I
definitely would go out of my way to
criticize people if I felt like they
were solving for TV over EV and people
got a sense for that. Um, and then every
quarter we did like a really well
prodduced company meeting. We spent a
lot of time on it and at the end of the
company meeting we we gave out we called
them the champagne awards was a bottle
of VUV that my co-founder and I signed
and would read something nice about them
and give it to them and usually there
was an EV team in that and so we did
different things to kind of beat that
into people's heads.
>> Amazing. So here is just celebrate
people that focus on this and also
include it in their valuation
performance reviews.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. That's a good segue to another
hagganism where you talk about how
companies are either customer centric,
employee centric or investor centric and
it's really important to know which you
are and you guys actually shifted there.
What's what's your insight there? Okay,
we were very employee centric um more
than customer centric in the first
several years of HubSpot. So much so
that we the company was number one on
glass door's best place to work. I was
the number one CEO in Glass Door. And as
I look back at that, I'm not sure that's
a good thing. Like wanting to be liked,
I don't think is a good feature of a
CEO. And wanting to be the best place to
work probably isn't the right way to go.
Like if you look at Toby from Shopify,
his scores aren't that good, but that
company's doing really, really well. Um,
and so we overindexed on it. And part of
the reason we over indexed on it is is
my co-founder was really strong in this.
And we had an incredibly powerful head
of HR name, Katie Burke, and we just
worked on it. We we spent a lot of time
on it. And when we have a management
team meeting, and let's say it's four
hours long, like two of the four hours
would be on employee stuff. And at some
point
I was like, why are we spending so much
time on employee net promoter scores?
Like let's say our employee net promoter
score was 60 and our customer net
promoter score is like 25. I was like we
need to take I would give up 10 points
of employee net promoter score to get 10
points of of customer net promoter
score. And so over some time we shifted
the center of gravity to customers. Um
and worried we still of course worried
about employees but the center of
gravity from HubSpot moved very much to
customers. And we did that in a few ways
like every time we had a management team
meeting. We had our management team
meets once a month not once a week. and
we would have a customer panel come on
and that customer panel I would run the
panel and ask very tricky questions to
the customers and pull out the bad news
from that and then we we still do this
we have an employ we have a uh sorry a
customer panel at our board meetings our
whole board can ask questions and my
favorite question is what do you love
about HubSpot and then and then what do
you hate about HubSpot and they kind of
look at your shoes and you're like come
on [laughter] and it's a great way so so
the employees voices here those company
meetings, we had the the the customers
in the company meetings. We changed the
comp plan. So the management team got
paid not on revenue but on retention and
net promoter score. And so we worked
very hard and kind of swung the pendulum
to customer centric. Uh but I do think
companies have one center of gravity or
another.
>> There's a really interesting thread
throughout this conversation of just
when do you want to change how you
operate? you have to go really far to a
whole other and almost overcorrect to
like yeah it's really interesting of
just how much work it takes to change
culture to change norms
>> and the bigger it is the more obvious
you have to make it and and the other
thing about being a CEO Lenny is you got
to say the same thing over and over and
over and over and over again it just
doesn't sink into people's heads you
have to just be incredibly repetitive on
it before it sinks in same thing with
marketing but internally uh that happens
the other weird thing about being a CEO
any is as it gets bigger,
[snorts]
like when it's small, everyone's giving
you and like you're all on the same
level, but as it gets bigger, you didn't
interview everyone. You thousands of
employees, you don't know everyone and
people put you on a pedestal that you
don't deserve. And let's say you're in
the hallway and you're just kind of
shooting the with a bunch of people
and you're like, "Ah, it'd be cool if we
had a product that d somebody inevitably
would go home and build that thing and
be like, Brian wants this. This is a big
initiative. So people really lock in on
what you say. And it turns out you have
to be very repetitive and you have to be
very careful what you say.
>> Dares was on the podcast, your uh
illustrious co-founder and he developed
a whole system to avoid this sort of
thing. Flash tags or it's like this is
just an FYI. We had a whole system
because we would say something on an
email to the management team or Slack
and everyone be like okay this is what
they want. Let's do it. And sometimes it
is like this is you need to do this and
sometimes it is like we should talk
about doing this and sometimes it is
this is just kind of an FYI we're
thinking about it and because it got big
we came up with that rubric of we needed
to tag each email with how do you want
me to get this done this week or is this
something we should talk about or is
this something that's just FYI I'm
thinking about
>> it was like like one of them is plea I'm
pleading you to do I'm not telling you
to do this I'm just pleading that you do
what I ask. [laughter]
Oh man. Okay. I This all this all
connects. And by the way, you guys were
co-founders for 20 years. Um you shared
something before we started recording.
So Dash famously did not ever want
direct reports. He's just like, "Brian,
I want to start this with you, but I'm
not I don't want to ever manage anyone."
And you were talking about how you had
to take on engineering, which didn't
make any sense.
>> Well, I'm an engineer, but I'm and I can
code, but it's not good. And so when we
started the company, he's like, "I was a
CEO before. I was terrible at it. I want
to do it again. You're going to be the
CEO." I'm like, "Great." [snorts] And
he's like, "And by the way,
I'm not going to have any direct
reports." I'm like, "Well, it's just the
two of us, so don't worry about it."
He's like, "No, ever. Never." [laughter]
I'm like, "Yeah, yeah, yeah." And then,
you know, we got 10 12 people and we're
starting to hire engineers and on board
them and making our big decisions. And
I would go to him and be like, "Well,
can you manage them?" He's like, "Don't
you remember I told you I won't have any
direct reports?" He's like, "Surely you
were kidding when you said that." He
said, "Nope." So, Der Sha has never had
a single direct report at HubSpot.
>> Incredible. I don't It's just like a
dream a dream a way to operate. Uh I
love that you made it possible for him
and it created all this opportunity for
him to tinker and Yes. And
>> it's a free month to really think and be
creative.
>> Yeah. I'm excited to get him back on the
podcast someday. We're going to link to
that episode. Maybe a last question. And
I'm curious if there's anything else you
think we missed. As a as a company grows
and scales, the job of a CEO changes.
You've written a bit about this of just
like how different the job is when
you're a starter versus a scaleup. What
are some of the things that most change
where your time goes as a CEO as the
company grows? We clicked on this
earlier, but that inspiration thing,
like I have a little rubric where it's
like in the startup phase, it's 90%
perspiration, 10% inspiration.
You get the scale up phase, it's 90%
inspiration, 10% perspiration.
And over time, you're doing every job in
a startup, and you still need to be very
attached to it. And you still need to
talk to customers. You can't give it up.
But man, you have to let go of so much
stuff over time in order for the
organization to scale. And I had a I
have trust issues. Like I only trusted a
small number of people at HubSpot to be
a DRRi to really drive something
important that drove people crazy that I
didn't have a a larger trust surface.
Um, every one of the CEOs I work with
has the same problem. And that's a
that's a scaling limit. That was a limit
for me. Um, I wasn't trusting enough.
>> Brian, I feel like I could uh chat with
you for hours. There's a whole list of
haggis I'm going to link to that we
didn't even touch on. But before we get
to our very exciting lightning round, is
there anything else that you think we
should chat about? Anything you want to
leave listeners with?
>> I Well, I would say if you're a CEO and
you're interested in scaling, I think
the halaganism post is like all the
mistakes I made in my 15 years being
CEO. I tried to summarize in there. to
help you avoid them. And I have a pod.
You should first listen to Lenny's pod
because it's amazing. But I have a pod
just for CEOs called Long Strange Trip
where I interview I interview CEOs about
this. So Lenny's interviewing me about
being a CEO. I get to interview other
people about being I'm kind of a CEO
geek these days.
>> And the the name of the podcast is the
Grateful Dead reference, which we
haven't touched on, but you're a huge
>> dead head as they say.
>> That could be a whole other podcast
conversation. I think there should
actually because I wrote a book called
Marketing Lessons from the Grateful Dead
and there's so much. The Grateful Dead
were like the ultimate Silicon Valley
startup. They started in 1964. Do you
know where they started, Lenny?
>> Um, no. PaloAlto.
Their early concerts were at Stanford
were all over Silicon Valley. They're a
Silicon Valley company. They were very
first principles in their thinking. They
created a new category, a new way to
distribute their music. They
disintermediated the uh the ticketing
companies, very innovative. Steve Jobs
and Jerry Garcia are like very similar
in my mind, real craft people. So, I
think of them as a great Silicon Valley
success story.
>> Uh you said you had a whole book about
this. Uh what what's the book called?
Just in case people want to dig in.
>> Marketing Lessons from the Grateful
Dead.
>> Amazing. And I read that you bought
Jerry Garcia's guitar for a large sum at
some point.
>> Yes, I did. And I I consider myself the
steward of his guitar.
>> Um it gets played like Dead and Co
played it. And there's a million
Grateful Dead cover bands that let them
play it, but I I'm taking care of it for
[snorts] for the Dead Heads.
>> What's like one nugget of wisdom or
lesson that people can take away from
The Grateful Dead for startups?
>> Okay, people talk about spiky teams. The
Grateful Dead team was interesting.
Garcia himself was a bluegrass guy. He
was a banjo player. And then Bob Weir
recently passed, was kind of a country
kuner like like country music. Then
their their bass player was a avancgar
jazz trombonist, Phil Leash. And their
um keyboard player was a guy named Ram
Mccernan Pigpen. And he was like a
harmonica guy. And the drummer was like
a marching band drummer. And so spikiest
of spiky teams came together and made a
new genre. They created a new category
of music. It wasn't rock and roll.
Wasn't sort of rolling stones. It wasn't
Buddy Holly. It was like this new thing.
And then they called it a jam band cuz
they played rock and roll in a bluesy
open organic kind of jazzy way. And so
spiky teams in creating categories
underrated. Incredible. Are you one of
these people that have been to like a
100 Grateful Dead concerts? Okay.
[laughter]
>> Makes sense. Okay. Uh, this could be a
whole podcast, but we're going to we're
going to
move along. Um, okay. With that, we've
reached our very exciting lightning
round. Brian, are you ready?
>> Let's do this.
>> Fired up. I've watched you do the right
lightning round so many times.
>> I'm flattered. Unsurprising questions.
Uh, what are two or three books that you
find yourself recommending most to other
people?
>> I haven't read a book in a long time. I
listen to podcasts. I'm on X. I talked
to a lot of other CEOs. I can't remember
the last time I actually sat down and
read a book.
>> Much respect. I had Mark Andrew on
recently and I don't know if you've
heard his whole thing on how what he
consumes. He talks about he has a very
barbell strategy to media. It's uh
either Twitter or books that are 10
years or older and nothing.
>> I've heard him say that. I'm heard him
say that. Uh, yeah. I kind of stopped
reading. I looked at I I was getting
ready for this, Lenny, and I was like, I
can't remember the last book I read.
>> I think this is going to make a lot of
people feel better that don't read
books. I like, all right, this is okay.
Um, favorite recent movie or TV show you
really enjoyed?
>> I love the new Ken Burns. Very long,
very good Revolutionary War documentary.
Um, he's a crafts person. It's
exceptionally well done. And what I like
about it is America is really like a
disruptor startup. Like so many startup
lessons from those ear they were gutsy.
Talk about two steps forward, one step
back. Like they got into the details of
how George Washington ran the army.
We were very close to losing that war
most of the time. And two steps, two
steps forward, 10 steps back. Two steps
forward, 10 steps back.
>> Lots of lead bullets. a lot and like and
like unless we had alliances like we had
alliances with the French, we were
screwed. Uh so I love that that it's a
long one, but it's really good.
>> How long is this? What are we getting
into?
>> Probably 10 plus hours.
>> 10 plus hours. What a It's a lot. Uh but
uh worth it is what I'm hearing.
>> I'm in Boston. You know, it's
revolutionary surrounded by history.
>> All right. Uh favorite product you
recently discovered that you really
love?
>> I love my deli clone. I teach a I teach
a course uh called scaling
entrepreneurial ventures
and um I don't do I don't do office
hours. I have deli do my office hours.
Very happy with that.
>> The my favorite feature of deli and
again lennybot.com there's my deli
though we both have little bots. Uh the
voice feature is the coolest thing right
just good great I can't I had video they
got rid of it they're going to bring it
back. Can't wait till it has video. My
least favorite my lowest MPS product is
my Sonos system. You have Sonos?
>> I do. And I I get you.
>> Yes. Painful.
>> Yeah. It's like so good in so many ways
and so annoying in so many ways. So
annoying.
>> But like we still use it, you know?
There's nothing better.
>> You're not a competitor. You and I
should start as someone competitor.
>> No, we should not. That's a bad I'm not
doing this. And just to be clear what
these bots are just so people understand
how cool this is. So my strain on every
single podcast like this one is going to
be sucked into it and every single
newsletter and you just talk to it and
ask it like how do I find product market
fit and it's based on everything I've
ever shared. Here's here's your steps.
Okay. What's even better about it is is
you because you can go to chatbtd and
say what would Lenny think about this.
What it's added is the ability to put a
bunch of documents in there that aren't
on the internet. like I put my my
lectures in there and there's a new
feature where it asks you questions and
it kind of interviews you and so it's a
it's pretty proprietary. It's it's
getting better. I like it a lot. Yeah.
To that point, the uh I haven't uh uh
promoted this feature of it, but it's
trained on all my paid content, too. So,
even if you're not a paid subscriber,
you get access to all of the things I've
ever shared. No, don't not tell let's
not tell too many people that because
it's one day I'm going to pay wallet in
the near future. Anyway, enough about
that. landingbot.com.
Do you have a favorite life motto that
you find yourself coming back to in work
or in life?
>> This isn't lightning, but four years
ago,
I had a very bad snowmobile accident.
Drove a snowmobile off a cliff. [snorts]
The snowmobile smashed into a million
pieces at the bottom of the cliff. So
did I.
And I laid at the bottom of that cliff
for a while.
I was unconscious for a long time. woke
up and
I didn't think I had my phone. So, I sat
there for a long time like I'm probably
going to die tonight. No one knows where
I am. It's frigid out. It's in Vermont
and I'm going to freeze to death. And I
sitting there for a couple hours. I
finally was like, "Oh, I do have my
phone." Dialed [snorts] 911. By the way,
911, amazing service. And so, the
helicopters came in, took me out, took
me to the hospital, and lots of
surgeries. And I was kind of out of
commission for a year. Uh, and you can't
see it, but I got metal all over me, all
in me. Life short, like life short. And
I I made some decisions at the bottom of
that cliff. The the one of the decisions
I made at the bottom of that cliff was I
don't really like being CEO of an 8,000
person company. Doesn't really suit me.
Like my harmonic motion is off. I don't
love the day-to-day. if I make it out of
here alive,
I'm out. And so that's exactly what
happened. Like the first big thing that
happened coming out of that was I gave
[snorts] the job to Yam who's still the
CEO doing a great job. So life's short.
Don't waste it. I've heard the story,
but it's just as powerful hearing it
again. What um why do you think it takes
people why does it take a moment like
that to help have someone realize this
is I need a change, you know, or just
like
>> I think people think they're going to
live forever and
they're not. Um as somebody who's 58,
yeah, life's very short and I'm much
more intentional about the decisions I
make, much more intentional about the
people I hang out with today than I was
before that. And I really try to work on
things that bring me joy,
>> like this pot.
>> Same. I I appreciate it.
>> Same. Um I read that you had 20 broken
bones in this accident.
>> Lot of broken bones. A lot of metal.
>> I got 33 screws in me. One loose one up
here. Lenny.
>> Same. [laughter]
Okay. Uh last question. We talked a bit
about the Red Sox. You're a part owner
of the Boston Red Sox. Now, what's
something that would surprise people
about how a baseball team is run or just
what it's like on the inside of a team
like the Red Sox?
>> It's not as profitable as people think.
People think like these rich guys come
in and buy these teams, but the way the
league is set up and the way the
economics are set up,
it's not it's not a profitable endeavor.
Whereas like other leagues are much much
more profitable. Um, baseball's also
also deeply flawed. It doesn't have a
salary cap. And so you've got the
Dodgers, who I take my hat off to, have
like a $400 million payroll, and the
Miami Marlins are like a $100 million
payroll. And in other leagues, that all
kind of balances out pretty well.
Baseball sort of it's it's set up
incorrectly. I think it'll correct uh in
the next couple years, but um it's kind
of it's a broken model.
>> Intriguing. Uh, stay in AI SAS if you
want to make money is what I'm hearing.
Vertical SAS. Uh, Brian, this was
incredible. Uh, covered almost
everything I was hoping to cover. Uh,
two final questions. Where can folks
find you online if they want to reach
out? Where do they find the bot? Where
do they how do they work with you if
they wanted to or do they have to be a
Squway founder? Uh, and then how can
listeners be useful to you?
>> I think there's two things. I would love
folks to listen to long strange trip my
pod and I would I get some comments but
not a ton. Like Lenny, you have more
comments than yours. I'm jealous. I'd
like just feedback on how I'm doing.
Like it's very new and it just started a
couple months ago. It seemed like it's
going pretty well, but like it's my
family and Sequoia people giving me
feedback. I'd like to see how all of you
what you think about it. So that would
be spectacular.
>> All right. So hop on your YouTube and
leave some comments about what they
think. The real real honest faith.
>> Okay, here it comes. Uh Brian, thank you
so much for doing this.
>> Appreciate you. Appreciate you. Thank
you. Bye everyone. Thank you so much for
listening. If you found this valuable,
you can subscribe to the show on Apple
Podcast, Spotify, or your favorite
podcast app. Also, please consider
giving us a rating or leaving a review
as that really helps other listeners
find the podcast. You can find all past
episodes or learn more about the show at
lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.